Now we've opened up our first
project within Arcgis Pro. We're
going to go over the layout of
Arcgis Pro and what some of the
main buttons do.
We'll start off by taking a look
at the ribbon at the top here.
So this is where you can access
the main buttons. We've got the
different tabs which change the
buttons that you can have access
to, and then within the very top
left corner, this is where we've
got quick buttons for creating a
new project, opening an existing
project or saving your project.
And also we have undo and redo
buttons here.
So we're first of all going to
take a look at the Project
button. So project works very
similar to file within Microsoft
programmes. So within Project we
could open a new project. So
we've got the buttons here for
starting with a template or
without. We also can open an
existing project and we have
save and save as here. There's
some other buttons here with
some more information or for
example options, which allows us
to set
certain preferences for how
we're using the software. And
within help you can access the
Esri online help page.
So now we'll take a look at the
Map tab. So going from left to
right we have Clipboard. This is
where you can access the copy
and paste functions
and next we have navigate. So
hopefully at this point you've
had some time to have a go at
navigating around your map in
your project. You can use the
scroller to zoom in and out on
your mouse, and the left button
to drag yourself around the map
within the navigate bar. We've
also got some fixed zoom in and
zoom out buttons,
and the little globe button to
the top of these allows us to
zoom to the full extent of our
map.
We also have backwards and
forwards arrows, and these allow
us to go to the previous extent
that we had zoomed in on our
map. So we can go back and
forwards within these different
views.
And then bookmarks is a really
useful tool for if you want to
save a particular view within
your map. That's useful, for
example to have Spain centered
in your map.
Then you can create a bookmark
of this view by going into
bookmarks, clicking New
Bookmark. Then you can name what
your view is on.
And this means that if you ended
up in a different place on your
map and you wanted to access
this view again, you just need
to click on Bookmarks and click
on that the bookmark that you
saved and you'll have your view
again.
So at this point I'd really
recommend pausing the video and
having a go yourself at creating
a bookmark.
Now going along, we also have Go
to XY button and this just
allows us to input specific
coordinates and it will take us
to that location. Now we'll take
a look at layer within layer we
can change our basemap. So for
the moment we've got the basemap
that was automatically opened
with when we set our template,
but we can change this. So for
example, we can change it to the
imagery base map here by going
in the basemap tab, but we'll
change this
back to the one we just had.
And within layer we can also add
our data in. So we've got lots
of options for adding data in.
And then we have the select
tool. So once we have some data
within our map, this is going to
allow us to select it. And we
have lots of different options
for selecting our data, for
example by attribute or by
location.
So we've got some other useful
tools here as well. So for
example, measure where we can
measure certain distances on our
map and locate where we can do a
search of cities, countries or
towns for example, within our
map or map layers. We also can
manage our label properties
within labelling here,
and within the Offline section
of this tab we could download
our map to enable offline use
and next we'll take a look at
the Insert tab. So within insert
we can add a new map to our
project if we wanted to, and the
button next to this New Layout
allows us to add a layout and
we'll be going over how to do
this within this course.
Within this section we also have
the buttons here, Import Map and
Layout and this is for importing
specifically an MXD file,
otherwise known as an ArcMap
desktop document. So, if you
have these files and you want to
import them, this is where you
should go.
And then we've got a connections
button here which allows us to
connect to a geodatabase or an
online server and we also have
the Add folder which allows us
to create folder connections.
And then we have layer templates
here which are blank point, line
and polygon templates that we
can use and edit.
And we also have the style
section here where we can add,
create or import style files
which just allow us to have more
custom colours within our
projects.
And now we'll take a look at the
Analysis tab. So this is where
we're going to analyse our data
and where we can access all the
geoprocessing tools that we need
for our projects. So within the
Geoprocessing section here, we
can access our toolbox of all
the different geoprocessing
tools. There is also a button
for the history and this is
where we can see the tools that
we've used recently.
We also have a button here for
opening up a Python window for
running script and also model
builder which is an interactive
portal allowing us to build
custom tools
and then within this tool
section here. This is just
allowing us easy access to some
vector data analysis tools.
We also have a lot of other
buttons here which I'm not going
to go over right now, but if you
do want to find out more about
them you can hover your mouse
over them and it will give you
some more information.
These raster buttons here in the
corner. The raster functions
allows you to bring up the
raster function pane and then
function editor allows you to
create custom functions
and now we'll take a look at the
view tab. So first of all, just
to go over some of the buttons
that we've got in the top left
here. Within view we have
convert and this converts our
map frame to a 3D map.
Within Link we have link views
and this allows us to link our
two map frames to the same
extent or zoom levels for
analysis.
But the View tab is mainly about
deciding how we want the layout
of our actual screen to look and
where we can access the
different buttons and windows.
So within this Windows section
here, this is where we can
access all of the windows that
we have up. So for example, we
could shut the contents pane and
within Windows we can now open
this back up. So this is really
useful if you ever lose any of
your panes and you don't know
where they've gone. This is the
best place to access them.
Within view you can also create
an animation as well.
And now we'll take a look at the
Edit tab. And so this is the
section where we have the
buttons for creating and editing
vector data.
So to start with we have
clipboard and so we can copy and
paste data using this. And then
in Manage Edits we've got the
really important Save button for
saving any edits that we make to
our data.
We also have Discard if we
wanted to get rid of any of
these edits.
We've got the snapping button
here which allows us to turn
snapping on or off, which we'll
just place or align our features
with other features.
And then we have the Create and
Modify and delete buttons here.
So this is for adding,
modifying, and deleting our
vector layers.
We've got another selection pane
here for selecting our data
and then these are our tools
here for editing our vector
data. So for example, the move
tool we could use to move a
Polygon, and then we've got a
reshape tool here as well where
we could reshape our Polygon.
And now we'll take a look at the
imagery tab.
And we're not going to talk too
much about this, but this is the
section that you would use if
you're working with aerial or
satellite imagery. And so you
can use the buttons within this
section to load in or analyse
this data for example.
And the last tab within this
ribbon is Share. So this is
where we can package, upload and
export our Arcgis Pro project.
So for example, within package
here we can package up our whole
project to allow us to send it
to someone. Or we could package
up just our map
and then the button here which
says geoprocessing. This allows
us to package up a geoprocessing
tool to let others use it.
Within Share As, we can share
our data as an interactive web
map or web layer to Arc Online
and then within Save As we can
create a project template here.
Output, this is the really
important section. So this is
where we can print or export our
map to a range of locations.
And now we'll take a look at the
other windows that we can see
within Arcgis Pro. So on the
left here, you'll probably have
your contents window up and this
is where we can see all of the
data layers that we put within
our map,
So within catalog, we can see
all the items that we have
within our Arcgis Pro project.
For example within maps we can
see the map that we have within
our project and we can also see
our connections. So for example
to our Geodatabase or our folder
connections and our styles we
can store here as well.
In Portal, we can access all of
our portals and these are online
locations where GIS data is
stored and shared. So we might
have our own portal but also our
organisation might have their
own portal and so we can access
this here and we can also share
data between the people within
our organisation.
Within Portal we can also access
the Living Atlas and this is
ESRI's own portal where they
have a multitude of data layers
and maps, for example, that you
can access and use within your
Arcgis Pro project.
In favourites you can favourite
any of the items that you're
using within your project so
that you can use them in the
future and have a quick access
to them.
And so that's the catalog window
that we have on the right. And
then just to go over some of the
buttons that we have here at the
bottom, we have this button here
if we want to choose a certain
extent to zoom our map in or out
to.
And then in the middle, these
numbers that keep changing,
these are showing us the XY
coordinate of wherever our mouse
is on the map.
And so that's it. That's the
main layout of Arcgis Pro with
the main ribbon where you can
access most of the buttons that
you need in the different tabs,
and then also the contents and
the catalogue pane which you're
most likely to have up when
you're working within Arcgis
Pro.